# caseStudy

                                                                    Paragraph

The database created works well for the library data because its is Normalized. A normalized database is one in which there is no data redundancy, little data complexity, all data dependencies and data are logically stored, and the relationship between both the tables and data within the tables are ensured. The database in its current state checks all those criteria, though the complexity could be reduced further if need be. Database normalization is important because without it, the database can be inaccurate, inefficient, slow, and loss of data can be inevitable when attempting to manipulate the data buy updating or deleting for example.
When it comes to primary and foreign keys, the database makes use of many of them. All tables other than BookType has a primary key, and only the Payment and Employees tables contain foreign keys. The reason those two tables don't use foreign keys is because the tables serve as data storage points, and were not made with the intention of taking data from another table. On the other hand, primary keys are used for a tables primary index and serve as a unique identifier for each row in the table. This being the case, the BookType table should have a primary key, as two other tables (Payment and Books) both use data from it.
The reasoning as for why each table was made is rather self explanatory for the most part. The Roles table holds the name of the role, its salary, and whether it is a full time or part time role. The Employees tables holds all employee data, including name, age, gender, and role (from Roles). The Library costs contains data on expenditures that the library must make in order to operate. Next comes the Inventory table, which lists the amount of stock for each item. The Books table contains information such as a books title, genre, author, as well as whether or not its in stock among other things. The Customers table contains identifying info (some of which is optional to add) on the customer. The Payment table has data on book fines, fees for lost books, and method in which the customer will pay. The CheckOuts tables contains check out dates, due dates, and a Boolean value for whether or not a book is over due. Finally, the BookType table is used to hold data for the type of book (paperback, textbook, etc) and the fine rates, as the rate will likely vary depending on the type of book in question.
